according to some literature if there is
no side went cyclists can expand up to
90 percent of their energy overcoming
drag forces if a cyclist is riding
without the presence of any wind the
wind direction that they see because
moving is in the same direction as their
motion as soon as there is a side wind
that the parent wind changes and vase
and see the wind coming from a different
direction what we've been looking at is
how we can position the second cyclists
different locations to minimize the
forces acting on that second cyclist I
had two senior students Adam Lovell and
Alec Cunningham worked with me on this
project they were seniors last year and
they were also in the cycling team so
they had plenty of cycling experience we
had small-scale experiments in Quinton
oh one interesting thing that we
discovered was that the first cyclist
benefits from the other cyclists behind
him and the forces acting on him are
slightly decreased compared to if you
were he or she were to right along and
then the fourth cyclist or the last
cyclist in our configuration seemed to
have larger forces acting on him
compared to the second and third and you
can think of this as a train the front
will experience low of the drag the back
will experience some of the drag as well
because a low-pressure region behind it
but then the cars in between are
shielded by the rest of the Train and
they still experience drag and friction
but not as much so in the middle